POCKET CASCADE: TEXT-ONLY REBUILD HANDOFF
Prepared 2026-09-08. Game candidate: 1.0.0, counted spare icons.

1. WHAT THIS TRANSFER DOES

The reliable way to match this project is to restore its actual files and build
them, not ask an AI to rewrite the game from its description. Design and history
explain intent but do not specify every physics detail, control, pixel, or test.

This kit represents source and assets as ordinary text. Use it if full project
contents are allowed inside .txt files. A file-extension conversion does not grant
permission to transfer otherwise restricted source or data. If only short written
notes are permitted, see section 10; an exact reconstruction is not guaranteed.

Three files travel together:

  START-HERE.txt       This guide, including a starter prompt for a coding agent.
  RESTORE.txt          Dependency-free Node.js restoration utility, as text.
  PROJECT-SOURCE.txt   Gzip/base64 JSON snapshot with original paths and SHA-256s.

Keep the payload as a complete file. Do not paste the large bundle into a chat or
ask a model to regenerate it; truncation or changed bytes will fail verification.
Checksums detect accidental damage, not who authored or approved a transfer.

Included: src, electron, scripts, tests, public, assets, docs, project instructions,
the development task, package.json, package-lock.json, TypeScript/Vite/test/builder
configuration, legal/notice files, original full balance report, and selected
dated release evidence/screenshots. Images are preserved as bytes, not redrawn.
The bundle contains the full chronological history, including later corrections.

Excluded: node_modules, dist, release executables, browser/native test output,
developer caches, user-level editor settings/skills/memory, and your playable
personal save. Source-controlled fixture data and past gameplay screenshots are
included; they do not restore your current machine. No Git repository is needed.

2. DESTINATION REQUIREMENTS

For the closest supported environment, use Windows x64 and Node.js 24.15.0 with
npm. The project permits Node >=22.12.0, but matching the recorded runtime reduces
differences. VS Code is convenient, not required for compilation. Global Copilot
skills or access to the original chat account are not build dependencies.

The destination needs internet access for npm packages, Electron, and Playwright
Chromium. npm ci uses the supplied lockfile; do not replace it with npm install
latest, recreate package.json, run npm update, or use npm audit fix on arrival.

No-internet destination: this kit alone is insufficient. You would also need
permitted transfers of Node/npm, dependencies or a complete offline cache, Electron,
Chromium for tests, and packaging tool downloads. Encoding those as text can be
very large. A short design document cannot replace missing compiler/runtime files.
The built game itself requires no runtime internet connection for normal play.

3. RESTORE THE FILES

Place the three .txt files together on the destination. In PowerShell, start in
that transfer folder, not inside an existing project. The restoration target must
not already exist; the utility refuses to overwrite any existing folder.

Run each command separately:

  node --version
  npm --version
  Copy-Item -LiteralPath .\RESTORE.txt -Destination .\restore.cjs
  node .\restore.cjs restore .\PROJECT-SOURCE.txt .\pocket-cascade
  node .\restore.cjs verify .\PROJECT-SOURCE.txt .\pocket-cascade
  Set-Location .\pocket-cascade

The .cjs copy is created on the destination; only the three .txt files cross
machines. A restore checks the payload, every file's size and hash, and relative
paths before writing, then checks the written files. A failure is not permission
to repair source by guessing: first check for a truncated or altered text file.

This verifies the transferred files, not that the new computer can run the game.
Do the build and runtime checks next. Run the hash check before commands that
intentionally regenerate assets, notices, reports, or other included files.

4. INSTALL, BUILD, AND CHECK

From the restored project root, run each command separately and stop on errors:

  npm ci
  npx playwright install chromium
  node scripts/prepare-desktop.mjs
  npm run verify
  npm run test:desktop

npm run verify builds and runs the unit and browser tests. Browser tests start or
reuse this project's Vite server at http://127.0.0.1:5173. Ensure that port is not
being used by another project. Native tests require an interactive Windows desktop
and the preceding production build; they use temporary test saves.

Historical game baseline on the source machine:
  246 unit tests across 13 files; 60 browser tests; 12 native tests.
  Two actual Windows executable launches passed after packaging.
These are prior results, not a new-machine pass or hardware certification.
The transfer helper has a separate narrow suite:

  node --test scripts/text-handoff.test.cjs

For Windows delivery:

  npm run package:win
  npm run test:package

Expected outputs:
  release/Pocket-Cascade-1.0.0-win-x64-portable.exe
  release/win-unpacked/Pocket Cascade.exe

The whole win-unpacked directory is needed for its application/depot; the main
unpacked executable alone is not a portable game. Both delivery formats are
unsigned in the current configuration. npm run test:package uses the ordinary
player-save location on the destination, not the temporary native-test profile.
It launches and quits without playing. Back up any pre-existing destination save.

The build can report a deliberate public theme.js script note and Zod annotation
warnings. Do not remove CSP or the early theme script just to silence those notes.
See docs/VERIFICATION.md and docs/TESTING.md for the actual evidence and boundaries.

Do not overwrite the included full balance baseline during setup. In particular,
npm run test:balance -- --quick replaces it with only two runs. Regenerate the full
report only deliberately after retaining the historical report elsewhere.

5. PLAY AND GENERATE OPTIONAL ASSETS

Browser development:
  npm run dev
  Open http://127.0.0.1:5173

If that port is occupied, select another explicitly:
  npm run dev -- --port 5174 --strictPort

Each host/port has its own browser save. Native play, after building:
  npm run desktop

The bundle already contains current original assets and reference captures.
npm run assets:generate regenerates icons; package:win does this automatically.
npm run assets:steam is optional and needs this project's dev server on port 5173
in another terminal. It creates real legal-campaign captures and store artwork;
it does not upload a Steam page or verify commercial readiness.

6. WHICH DOCUMENTS AND INSTRUCTIONS MATTER

Read these restored files in this order before continuing development:

  .github/copilot-instructions.md
    Project constraints and working practices. No Git initialization, branches,
    commits, unapproved retuning, or deferred-feature implementation.

  docs/OPEN-ITEMS.md
    Current statuses and what is actually authorized. P01-P14 and D08 are complete.
    D01-D07, D09, and D10 remain open. D09 -> D03 -> D01 is the discussion priority.

  docs/HISTORY.md
    Full chronological requests, rationale, approvals, tests, and reversals.
    Read the latest entries first, then older entries for context. H011 is the
    latest game feature delivery; H015 corrects an earlier D09 recommendation.
    Do not implement an old proposal that a later entry withdrew. Keep appending
    dated entries to this same history after every substantive exchange.

  docs/DESIGN.md and src/game
    Implemented rules and controlling source. Preserve actual code/tests rather
    than substituting the original research concept or a new AI interpretation.

  docs/BALANCE.md and artifacts/balance/report.json / report.md
    Original full sixteen-run evidence and its limitations. Simulated performance
    is not measured human playtime, fun, retention, sales, or a selected price.

  docs/TESTING.md and docs/VERIFICATION.md
    Build/check commands, dated game totals, platform boundaries, and artifact
    evidence. These own verification claims; older README/history counts may
    describe an earlier milestone rather than the current code.

  docs/STEAM.md, docs/RELEASE-CHECKLIST.md, docs/STORE.md
    Native security/save/platform setup, outstanding release gates, and proposed
    store presentation. Steam AppID is 0 and real Steam/Cloud work is unverified.

  README.md, LICENSE.txt, THIRD_PARTY_NOTICES.txt
    Overview, commands, and legal-review inputs. The license placeholder is not
    an approved player EULA or a grant of commercial distribution rights.

Original external research and unavailable chat transcripts are not needed to
compile. The important project decisions are captured in the included history.
No global memory files or personal Copilot configuration are required to proceed.

7. CURRENT BEHAVIOR TO PRESERVE

- React 19 / TypeScript / Vite; original Canvas2D cabinet; Matter.js at 120 Hz.
  Browser, Electron, and balance tests share the authoritative DropSimulation.
- Eight parts, twelve minimum-payout commissions, five launches per commission,
  nine aim lanes, 46 sockets. Excess payout is success, not an exact-total failure.
- Targets: 100, 300, 550, 850, 1300, 1950, 2850, 4200, 6200, 9000, 13500, 20000.
  Capacity grows from 7 to 18; After Hours allows 20. Max owned parts is 80.
- Launch conditions stay deterministic across a run. Two split generations, at
  most four tokens; inherited hit history; 12-second safety collection pays value.
- Individual part IDs persist. Equivalent spare icons group with a quantity badge;
  meaningful Fork/Kicker directions remain separate. Actions affect one real copy.
- Quick Guide, Workshop-credit clarity, visible inventory/capacity, restart and
  New Workshop confirmation are implemented. No calculated machine suggestions.
- No mid-run relaxed-target prompt. Initial relaxed Workshop choice and existing
  loss-only retry bonus remain. Restart adds no reward or new assistance.
- Music continues through menus; physical impact audio is ephemeral, not saved
  scoring. Reduced motion is opt-in. Preserve local fonts, CP palette, original
  art, and Lucide icons. No external runtime assets, analytics, or paid currency.
- Version-1 validated saves, primary/backup recovery, renderer isolation, sandbox,
  CSP, trusted-frame IPC, and validated native import/export must remain intact.
- D09 gift weighting and duplicate pricing are only proposals. D03 theme, D01
  expanded endgame, and D10 post-level reward dialog are not implemented.
- H015 withdrew permanent old/new balance profiles and special challenges solely
  for the current test machine as requirements. No save reset/migration or balance
  rule change was approved by that discussion. Preserve the actual current game.

8. OPTIONAL: BRING YOUR SAVED WORKSHOP

Source/build state and player progress are separate. This kit deliberately does
not read or copy the current playable save. Restoring it starts with whatever save
already exists on the destination, or a fresh workshop if none exists.

To bring a machine, deliberately use Settings -> Export save on the source.
The exported JSON is text; transfer a copy with a .txt extension if required.
On the destination, restore the .json extension and use Settings -> Import save.
Export/back up any destination machine first because import replaces the active
machine. Do not copy a live save over a running game or assume the project folder
contains the browser's localStorage or the native AppData save.

Native save location:
  %APPDATA%\Pocket Cascade\pocket-cascade-save.json
Browser keys:
  pocket-cascade.save.v1
  pocket-cascade.save.v1.backup

Never insert private saves or credentials into the general project handoff unless
you deliberately choose to share them. No Steam Cloud account transfer is implied.

9. STARTER PROMPT FOR THE DESTINATION CODING AGENT

Use the restored Pocket Cascade project as the source of truth. Do not rewrite
or scaffold over it. First read .github/copilot-instructions.md, the latest
docs/HISTORY.md entries, docs/OPEN-ITEMS.md, docs/DESIGN.md, and docs/VERIFICATION.md.
Read local controlling code before changes. Restore and verify the supplied exact
files, install with npm ci and the existing lockfile, then build and run the
documented narrow/full checks as appropriate. Do not initialize Git, create a
branch, commit, reset a save, upgrade dependencies, invent game rules, or implement
deferred proposals without explicit approval. D09/D03/D01/D10 are unapproved.
Honor the H015 correction instead of resurrecting the H013 dual-balance proposal.
Record only actual new-machine results; historical passes are not fresh evidence.
Append a dated history entry after each substantive exchange and keep the tracker
current. Preserve the original full balance report and all unrelated user changes.

10. LIMITS OF A WRITTEN-ONLY RECONSTRUCTION

If source bytes cannot travel, bring all the documents in section 6 as .txt,
plus the exact dependency/configuration files, tests, complete source listings,
and assets or their original generators wherever permitted. With only design and
history prose, a new implementation can aim for the same behavior but cannot be
promised to match this game's precise physics, saves, UI, artwork, or bugs. There
is no short prompt that fully replaces the source and regression tests.

Even with exact source, another OS, GPU, fonts, display scaling, or changed toolchain
can affect rendering. Rebuilt executable hashes may differ due to packaging and
generated resources. File-hash restoration proves source/asset identity, not a
bit-reproducible Windows build or physical audio/controller/Steam/Deck validation.

11. REFRESHING THE KIT LATER

From the original/restored project root, after finishing and recording changes:

  node --test scripts/text-handoff.test.cjs
  node scripts/text-handoff.cjs export

This regenerates handoff/START-HERE.txt, handoff/RESTORE.txt, and
handoff/PROJECT-SOURCE.txt from the current allowlisted project files. It excludes
the handoff directory itself. Existing files with these three output names are
replaced; they are generated snapshots, not the only copy of the source. Keep a
separate copy of an older kit if you need that exact historical version.

Before an actual transfer, restore the refreshed bundle into a new temporary
folder and run the verify command. Never treat a stale export as the latest game.